some of the most intense debates about
race racism immigration and national
identity have centered around a YouTube
channel known as sargon of akkad now
recording and publishing videos under
the name the thinker e among the more
bizarre digressions in this guy's
history of recording and uploading
content was his claim that he is himself
one-quarter black and when pushed on the
claim he has clarified that he has one
grandparent one grandfather who was a
hundred percent africa not part africa
now many people have been puzzled by
this and many people simply ridiculed
him for it
not only is he appeared on camera
himself he's had both of his parents
appear on camera and none of them look
like they're even one-quarter black none
of them look like they're an eighth or
sixteenth black and by the way should I
even bother to mention some members of
my own family some of my relations by
marriage
are in that position of being just
slightly of African ancestry I'll put it
that way um so yeah part from the fact
that I went to a high school that was
about 50% black I grew up in downtown
Toronto around all kinds of black people
all kinds people from the Caribbean who
were of mixed European and black
ancestry to some extent I'm in a
position to know we had the solution to
the riddle in today's new video his
grandfather his African grandfather is a
native of the island of st. Helena
native native you say the island of st.
Helena although it's considered part of
the continent of Africa is way out in
the middle of the ocean with no
connection to any continent at all it is
as close to the middle of nowhere as
anything can be and the indigenous
population of st. Helena when it was
discovered by European explorers
was 0 now this island had a very
interesting role in the transatlantic
slave trade in exploration and the
European conquest of large parts the
world and the mean thing it's famous for
is being the abode of napoleon bonaparte
after he fell from power is his earthly
prison today doubtless there are some
black african people living there i
don't know i don't know the demographics
but obviously his his quote-unquote
african grandparent would in fact be an
example of a white european probably
british who was part of that empire who
was part of the colonization who
probably himself or his ancestors
profited by the slave trade by the
shipping of slaves and maybe opium and
some other terrible things the british
empire traded in that's what it was it
was a hub of of transoceanic
intercontinental trade and we have the
solution to the riddle of how he's
claimed it he has used the term black he
doesn't just say african he has claimed
he is one-quarter black sometimes
clarified as one quarter african and
yeah in fact he traces some of his
ancestry to the island of st. Helena he
made the even more bizarre claim that
his ancestor his grandfather chose to
become British chose to leave the island
of st. Helena and embraced British
culture and assimilated a British
culture which he is contrasting to the
disparaging picture he paints of many
immigrants today who moved to England
but in his from his perspective do not
embrace British culture so look I have
been an immigrant myself many many times
over
I'm now 40 years old I'm the product of
several sequent migrations and in some
countries you know what may be used in
one country
I was really embraced I was really
accepted as part of that country when I
lived in Laos I lived there for two and
a half years I really put in a lot of
effort to learn to speak the Lotion
language and I studied the history and
politics at
working inside the government at a very
very low level by the way but
nevertheless and you know there was a
very strange and moving moment toward
the end of my time there and this wasn't
the only moment but this is the one
where was said literally I had to go in
and talk to somebody inside a hotel and
I stopped to talk to an old woman who
was sitting on a what's your city car
sitting on a crate I think in front of
this hotel sitting on a box ISM there
wasn't a bench or anything there her
anyway and this woman you know I didn't
know if she was working in the hotel
herself with so his target or in lotion
and she jabbed me feel a bit and then I
went in to ask inside though tell and
the guy and said that it was very
apprehensive to see me think that's
because they were just in the middle of
doing renovations and he wasn't sure
what was going on and I started asking
some questions you could see it was
really tense and the old woman came in
the door and she said to him in love
[ __ ]
don't worry it's fine he's a white loud
that was mind-blowing to me that kind of
that level of acceptance and here's the
other thing the degree of acceptance or
perceived acceptance into that culture
after only you know again two and a half
years but I was only working hard on it
for a year and a half or something I I
wasn't I I didn't think I possibly could
assimilate it's a Southeast Asian
culture so it's over um when I was on
the Thai border area so Laos has a long
border with Thailand several times
Thai people were racist against me I
wish I was joking this is not joke they
were not racist against me because I was
white they were racist against me and
shouted insults against me for being a
white Lau for being lotion for being a
white person who had assimilated into
Lao culture yeah it was it was my book
now you know add so that see part of the
puzzle here I partly it was cuz I was
young and strong and they wanted me and
I was sounds weird but in terms of that
culture you know just weird if you will
be like oh wow he'll
big and tough you can carry a lot of
firewood there was this weird kind of
appreciation just you look big and
rugged we'll accept you into our tribe
really there's a kind of you know
peculiar but the other issue was I was a
scholar of the ancient religious
language so I could read and write patli
and that gave me a certain status
immenseness my girlfriend recently but
you know several times people consulted
me about ghosts where they thought they
had a ghost infestation there was a
haunting problem and they took my even
though it was a total foreigner was a
white Canadian they took my perspective
on ghosts problems seriously because
they knew I could reap Ali that could
read the ancient scriptural language of
their religion of course they can't they
speak loud better than I ever will but
they don't know anything about Pali and
a lot of them are very limited literacy
so there are different elements that now
right next door to Laos is Cambodia man
I don't have any words polite enough to
express how I got along with Cambodian
culture and how they got along with me
I'm the kind of the kind of denigration
and it's even know what even when I was
delivering a lecture it was a formal
academic lecture I delivered on ancient
Buddhism and Pali in that history and
related stuff and politics do all
wrapped up in one lecture you know
remember when I delivered that lecture
even then the attitude I got from
Cambodians in the audience and talk to
me I flee just this sneering contempt
you know to paraphrase no I think to
quote verbatim stand-up comedian Chris
Rock the attitude I got from kid boy is
like yeah yeah yeah you you think you're
smart you think you're tough
well can you kick my ass really no I was
always I I never I never could and never
would you know assimilate into Cambodian
culture it's right next door I mean the
contrast is there they're adjacent tiny
poverty-stricken countries in Southeast
Asia that I lived in for a significant
periods of time now the lens the frame
that sargon of akkad or the thing curry
puts up against this issue is that he
presumes anyone who chooses to go and
live in another country or chooses to my
origin of the country is choosing to
assimilate into that country and I think
in a very simple sense that's
fundamentally wrong whether it was Laos
Cambodia
nelle Taiwan or even when I made the
decision within Canada to go to the area
where our indigenous people live the
curry in the Aegean to study their
language and live with them I was not
choosing to assimilate into their
culture I did not imagine that I had
something positive to offer them by
imitating them just stay on that resume
does does anyone in New York really
value New York London Amsterdam doesn't
matter he'll say Amsterdam does anyone
in Amsterdam really value really need a
Chinese person who moves to Amsterdam
with the motivation to discard
everything unique and distinctive about
themselves and imitate and any late the
local culture to become a game you know
and you can never do it I can never be
completely fluent in lotion I can never
really share their perspective why would
you value a second-rate foreign
imitation of your culture as opposed to
something different and distinctive and
authentically alien that nevertheless
has something positive to add to your
culture like you know I mean let's keep
it real simple oh great you came from
China to Amsterdam and you opened a
Chinese restaurant you didn't try to
open a Dutch restaurant you didn't try
to open up oh you didn't try to open a
second-rate imitation of you know our
cuisine you brought your own cuisine
okay you know whatever you came from
China you opened a Chinese antique shop
and you're a Chinese art dealer you're
expert in Chinese literature and culture
okay you have something distinctive you
can
whatever it is these are really crude
really simple examples when I came from
Canada to Laos or from Canada Cambodia
my feeling was hey I have something
value I have something valuable to offer
to your culture being Who I am
in all my a leonis and all my difference
when I went to live amongst the Cree in
the achieve way at four stations
university by the way this wasn't some
remote village was in a university
devoted to First Nations people but they
are significantly a different culture
believe me if you live in Saskatchewan
white European culture and First Nations
culture are separate they are separate
and not equal it's a very deep very
bitter racial and racist racist divide
as a result of the history the British
Empire you know I I know I actually
refused I refuse to go and attend
pipe-smoking ceremonies I refuse to sit
in a tent and do the spiritual seances I
said them no you know that's that's not
who I am I'm not here to imitate your
culture I'm not here to pretend to be a
part of your culture I feel I have
something valuable I can offer through
you know the study of language and
history and politics you know Max Turner
has a dictum says you know people have
this delusion if only everyone wore one
hat nobody would have to take off their
hat to one another you know it's a
little bit cryptic I admit but the idea
is that by unifying people under one
cultural identity or one nation that
then they're made equal and they don't
have to take off their hats and instead
the alternate approaches to say no we
can recognize our mutual alienness we
can recognize our distinctive and our
difference and we can find value in that
we can find something worthwhile we can
make friendships that aren't based on a
myth of unity and uniformity but that
are based on a real and pragmatic
appreciation of our differences
and if we can't we can't sargon of akkad
you tell me if you're not one-quarter
black if you're not one-quarter African
why have you made it a crutch in your
career of pro British Empire
transparently racist rhetoric to claim
that you are I can't think of any good
reason why you would lie about that why
is it that in your video which I think
clocks in it about twenty one minutes in
length why is it that you only and
repeatedly mention your feeling that
London is now a city where the
indigenous population are a minority and
you don't mention any other example from
the history of the British Empire where
the native people really became a
minority in their own land from
Australia to Canada your empire has a
tremendous history of bloodshed on its
hands and it's for that reason that now
in the 21st century you're not in the
same position as Switzerland to say that
you'd prefer to be an isolationist
country you inherit the legacy of the
cosmopolitanism that you created and
that you opposed upon others two wars
that were fought for slavey up partly
through wars that were fought for
control of the slave trade and even
worse the trade in opium
one-take no edits